# AndroidMovieRecommendations
Android App that recommends popular movies! It makes use of the API at www.MyApiFilms.com to pull the currently most popular movies, their metaratings, and a brief plot synopsis for each. The user can mark these movies as "want to see" or "have seen," in which case the movie is added to a personal list that is stored on the phone by way of an SQLite database. There is also basic functionality for a "movie search" implemented here, which the user can make use of to find movies by title, and also to add those movies to their list. Going even further, the app stores a date in the local database that keeps track of when your list was last updated. If it has been more than a day, it goes through your list (only once a day) and checks if movies that were previously un-rated or un-released have since received a Metascore, and updates your list accordingly. This makes it possible for your personal movie list to always be up to date, and for movies that could not be rated as "has seen" when you initially added them to eventually have that option become available as the movie releases(the app assumes that if a movie has a Metascore, it has been released, though this is not always accurate). In any case there is some fun stuff to explore here, both in the code and the actual app functionality. Enjoy!

#Some Background
This was originally supposed to be a much less complex culminating project for an Android App Development course at Seneca College. However, because the assignment was very open ended and I had a lot of free time to work on it, I got a bit of a creative spark and began implementing several additional features that I felt would make the application more complete or useful. By the time I finished it, I felt as though it was much more than a School Project - it was a personal project. And because of that I put a lot of my own free time and effort into fixing various bugs or getting small details just right, not because it would affect my grades but because I cared on a personal level about making the app as good as I could. And this is the end result of that process.

#License
Copyright © 2016, Frank Botos, All Rights Reserved.
Please do not use this app for commercial purposes. However, feel free to use it for educational purposes, to share and redsistribute both the code(unaltered) and the .apk itself(unaltered), and to use the app if its functionality is something that you are interested in.
